README.md, before:

# Mini Twitter

[![Moove It](https://circleci.com/gh/moove-it/react-native-template.svg?style=svg)](https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/moove-it/react-native-template?branch=master)

This project is a mobile application created using React Native. The project includes features like navigation, Post planets ui, Planet Listing Ui, and different screens for various functionalities.

## Demo

- App Download Link - https://portal.testapp.io/apps/install/ajbWpVvq1Awjx

## Screenshots

Here you can include screenshots of your project.

## Screenshots - of all screens

<p float="left">
  <img src="/_app/@lib/assets/projectsScreenshots/1.png" width="200" />
  <img src="/_app/@lib/assets/projectsScreenshots/2.png" width="200" /> 
  <img src="/_app/@lib/assets/projectsScreenshots/3.png" width="200" /> 
  <img src="/_app/@lib/assets/projectsScreenshots/4.png" width="200" /> 
 
</p>

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js > 12](https://nodejs.org) and npm (Recommended: Use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm))
- [Watchman](https://facebook.github.io/watchman)
- [Xcode 12](https://developer.apple.com/xcode)
- [Cocoapods 1.10.1](https://cocoapods.org)
- [JDK > 11](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk11-downloads.html)
- [Android Studio and Android SDK](https://developer.android.com/studio)

## Installation

To run this project locally, follow the below steps:

1. Clone the project repository from GitHub.

`https://github.com/meer-habib-dev/Mini_Twitter.git`

After that you should proceed as with any javascript project:

- Go to your project's root folder and run `npm install`.
- If you are using Xcode 12.5 or higher got to /ios and execute `pod install --`repo-update`
- Run `npm run ios` or `npm run android` to start your application!

(Using yarn: `yarn ios` or `yarn android`)

Note: Please read the Setup environments section that is below in this file for more information about the execution scripts.

## Folder structure

This template follows a very simple project structure:

- `_app`: This folder is the main container of all the code inside your application.
  - `@lib`: This folder contains all actions that can be dispatched to redux.
    - `api` : 'Handles all the api call through out the app'
    - `assets`: Asset folder to store all images, vectors, etc.
    - `constants`: Folder to store any kind of constant that you have.
    - `Hooks`: Holds all reusable hooks.
    - `utils`: Holds all the utility functions.
    - `store`: Folder to put all redux middlewares and the store.
  - `components`: Folder to put all redux middlewares and the store.
    - `common`: Holds all the common ui components (like button, input, alert).
    - `navigation`: Folder to store the navigators.
      - `StackNavigator` : Holds all stack screens.
      - `TabNavigator` : Holds all tab screens.
    - `screens`: Folder that contains all your application screens/features.
      - `Screen`: Each screen should be stored inside its folder and inside it a file for its code and a separate one for the styles and tests.
        - `index.js`
        - `Screen.styles.js`
        - `utils` : contains respective screens data, hooks and functions
- `App.js`: Main component that starts your whole app.
- `index.js`: Entry point of your application as per React-Native standards.

## Setup environments

### Using scripts from console

The template already has scripts to execute the project calling a specific environment defined into the package.json file. Keep in mind that if you are going to create new `envs` you have to define the script to build the project properly.

To define which env you want to use, just keep the structure `yarn [platform]: [environment]`

DEV: `yarn ios` or `yarn android`

STG: `yarn ios:staging` or `yarn android:staging`

PROD: `yarn ios:prod` o `yarn android:prod`

Also, you can use npm following the same rule as before: `npm run ios:staging`

Modify the environment variables files in root folder (`.env.development`, `.env.production` and `.env.staging`)

#### Android

A map associating builds with env files is already defined in `app/build.gradle` you can modify or add environments if needed.

For multiple enviroments to work you would need to change `-keep class [YOUR_PACKAGE_NAME].BuildConfig { *; }` on `proguard-rules.pro` file.

#### iOS

The basic idea in iOS is to have one scheme per environment file, so you can easily alternate between them.

To create a new scheme:

- In the Xcode menu, go to Product > Scheme > Edit Scheme
- Click Duplicate Scheme on the bottom
- Give it a proper name on the top left. For instance: "qa"
- Then edit the newly created scheme to make it use a different env file. From the same "manage scheme" window:

  Expand the "Build" tab on the left menu

  - Click "Pre-actions", and under the plus sign select "New Run Script Action"
  - Where it says "Type a script or drag a script file", type: `echo ".env.qa" > /tmp/envfile` replacing `.env.qa` with your file.

- Also, you will need to select the executable for the new schema:

  Expand the "Run" tab on the left menu

  - Under the "Executable" dropdown select the ".app" you would like to use for that schema

## Generate production version

These are the steps to generate `.apk`, `.aab` and `.ipa` files

### Android

1. Generate an upload key
2. Setting up gradle variables
3. Go to the android folder
4. Execute `./gradlew assemble[Env][BuildType]`

Note: You have three options to execute the project
`assemble:` Generates an apk that you can share with others.
`install:` When you want to test a release build on a connected device.
`bundle:` When you are uploading the app to the Play Store.

For more info please go to https://reactnative.dev/docs/signed-apk-android

### iOS

1. Go to the Xcode
2. Select the schema
3. Select 'Any iOS device' as target
4. Product -> Archive

For more info please go to https://reactnative.dev/docs/publishing-to-app-store

Commit message:

code refectored and readme updated

README.md, after:

# Mini Twitter

[![Moove It](https://circleci.com/gh/moove-it/react-native-template.svg?style=svg)](https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/moove-it/react-native-template?branch=master)

This Project is going to be an accordion library on React Native mobile apps..

## Demo

- App Download Link - Not Generated Yet

## Screenshots

Here you can include screenshots of your project.

## Screenshots - of all screens

<p float="left">
  <img src="/_app/@lib/assets/projectsScreenShots/1.png" width="200" />
  <img src="/_app/@lib/assets/projectsScreenShots/2.png" width="200" /> 
  <img src="/_app/@lib/assets/projectsScreenShots/3.png" width="200" /> 
  <img src="/_app/@lib/assets/projectsScreenShots/4.png" width="200" /> 
 
</p>

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js > 12](https://nodejs.org) and npm (Recommended: Use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm))
- [Watchman](https://facebook.github.io/watchman)
- [Xcode 12](https://developer.apple.com/xcode)
- [Cocoapods 1.10.1](https://cocoapods.org)
- [JDK > 11](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk11-downloads.html)
- [Android Studio and Android SDK](https://developer.android.com/studio)

## Installation

To run this project locally, follow the below steps:

1. Clone the project repository from GitHub.

`https://github.com/meer-habib-dev/Mini_Twitter.git`

After that you should proceed as with any javascript project:

- Go to your project's root folder and run `npm install`.
- If you are using Xcode 12.5 or higher got to /ios and execute `pod install --`repo-update`
- Run `npm run ios` or `npm run android` to start your application!

(Using yarn: `yarn ios` or `yarn android`)

Note: Please read the Setup environments section that is below in this file for more information about the execution scripts.

## Folder structure

This template follows a very simple project structure:

- `_app`: This folder is the main container of all the code inside your application.
  - `@lib`: This folder contains all actions that can be dispatched to redux.
    - `assets`: Asset folder to store all images, vectors, etc.
    - `constants`: Folder to store any kind of constant that you have.
    - `Hooks`: Holds all reusable hooks.
    - `utils`: Holds all the utility functions.
    - `store`: Folder to put all redux middlewares and the store.
  - `components`: This folder has all the files and folder that contains components.
- `App.js`: Main component that starts your whole app.
- `index.js`: Entry point of your application as per React-Native standards.

## Setup environments

### Using scripts from console

The template already has scripts to execute the project calling a specific environment defined into the package.json file. Keep in mind that if you are going to create new `envs` you have to define the script to build the project properly.

To define which env you want to use, just keep the structure `yarn [platform]: [environment]`

DEV: `yarn ios` or `yarn android`

STG: `yarn ios:staging` or `yarn android:staging`

PROD: `yarn ios:prod` o `yarn android:prod`

Also, you can use npm following the same rule as before: `npm run ios:staging`

Modify the environment variables files in root folder (`.env.development`, `.env.production` and `.env.staging`)

#### Android

A map associating builds with env files is already defined in `app/build.gradle` you can modify or add environments if needed.

For multiple enviroments to work you would need to change `-keep class [YOUR_PACKAGE_NAME].BuildConfig { *; }` on `proguard-rules.pro` file.

#### iOS

The basic idea in iOS is to have one scheme per environment file, so you can easily alternate between them.

To create a new scheme:

- In the Xcode menu, go to Product > Scheme > Edit Scheme
- Click Duplicate Scheme on the bottom
- Give it a proper name on the top left. For instance: "qa"
- Then edit the newly created scheme to make it use a different env file. From the same "manage scheme" window:

  Expand the "Build" tab on the left menu

  - Click "Pre-actions", and under the plus sign select "New Run Script Action"
  - Where it says "Type a script or drag a script file", type: `echo ".env.qa" > /tmp/envfile` replacing `.env.qa` with your file.

- Also, you will need to select the executable for the new schema:

  Expand the "Run" tab on the left menu

  - Under the "Executable" dropdown select the ".app" you would like to use for that schema

## Generate production version

These are the steps to generate `.apk`, `.aab` and `.ipa` files

### Android

1. Generate an upload key
2. Setting up gradle variables
3. Go to the android folder
4. Execute `./gradlew assemble[Env][BuildType]`

Note: You have three options to execute the project
`assemble:` Generates an apk that you can share with others.
`install:` When you want to test a release build on a connected device.
`bundle:` When you are uploading the app to the Play Store.

For more info please go to https://reactnative.dev/docs/signed-apk-android

### iOS

1. Go to the Xcode
2. Select the schema
3. Select 'Any iOS device' as target
4. Product -> Archive

For more info please go to https://reactnative.dev/docs/publishing-to-app-store
